# US-accident-severity
One of the primary objectives of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is to reduce the human toll and property damage that motor vehicle traffic crashes inflict on our society. Crashes each year result in thousands of lives lost, hundreds of thousands of injured victims, and billions of dollars in property damage. Accurate data are required to support the development, implementation, and assessment of highway safety programs aimed at reducing this toll. NHTSA uses data from many sources, including the Crash Report Sampling System (CRSS). CRSS is a sample of police-reported crashes involving all types of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists, ranging from property-damage-only crashes to those that result in fatalities. CRSS is used to estimate the overall crash picture, identify highway safety problem areas, measure trends, drive consumer information initiatives, and form the basis for cost and benefit analyses of highway safety initiatives and regulations. The CRSS obtains its data from a nationally representative probability sample selected from the more than seven million police-reported crashes which occur annually. Although various sources suggest that there are many more crashes that are not reported to the police, the majority of these unreported crashes involve only minor property damage and no significant personal injury. By restricting attention to police-reported crashes, the CRSS concentrates on those crashes of greatest concern to the highway safety community and the general public. This multi-year analytical user’s manual provides documentation on the evolution of coding practices of the CRSS. The manual will continue to grow each year and present the historical coding of the CRSS from inception through present. It includes documentation on the data elements that are contained in the CRSS and other useful information that will enable the users to become familiar with the data system. The FARS/CRSS Coding and Validation Manual provides more detailed definitions and coding rules for each data element and attribute.
